# Hotel Booking
## Overview of the project
ABSTRACT:
The dataset is about hotel booking, this contains data from 3 years of daily observation from 2015 to 2017 of resort hotels and city hotels. The dataset contains 119390 rows and 36 columns. in this dataset, there are several rows and columns in which it gives the information about how many children adult and babies visited resort and city hotel on which date they check-in and check out as well as let us know that from here they came and payment type they had made .in this what kind of rooms and meals were available in city and resort hotel.it also gives information related that how many people canceled and how many people revisited both hotels on behalf of it we will do prediction by using is canceled target variable. Is canceled is our target variable on which we will do prediction that whether people will do cancelation of resort and city hotel bookings, or they will not be doing any cancelation. To predict we will use the previous year’s data from 2015 to 2017 but before we do the prediction, we will do the data cleaning part in which we will find na values after we will drop them which are having higher na values. In our dataset, we created a boxplot to check whether our dataset contain any outliers if we removed the outliers from our dataset after that will do a visual representation on the behalf of some people who visited the resort and City hotel, in this we will also visualize the number of visitors in the hotel every year by comparing with each other than that we will see how many people came from different citied in resort and city hotel after we will check how many clients given priority to what kind of room. We will remove categorical attributes the int will use to do prediction but before that, we will split the data into train and test models to train our data. Normalization will be done to normalize the int values but before running any model smote function will be used if there will be imbalanced data. We will apply logistic regression, and, naïve base, and random forest classifier then we will compare the prediction accuracy. We will also use cross-validation on our dataset which could also help us to do predictions. A confusion matrix will be created on behalf of which model has higher accuracy this will let us know how much prediction accuracy of true positive, true negative, and false negative. At last, will use using roc model from which we will see how much it is near to the top left edge for example if it is near to the top left edge the better the model is.

 ## RESEARCH QUESTIONS:
 1. Check the distribution of the minimum and a maximum number of visitors? 
Sol:  By comparing the bar graph in visualization I have seen that number of visitors was more in city hotel as compared to resort hotel. The count was almost 80000 in city hotel however if we investigate resort hotel the count was almost 40000. By comparing yearly, in city hotel people visited mostly in 2016 as compared to 2015 and 2017
2. Build different models to compare and select a more accurate one?
Sol: in this dataset I had used four models such as logistic regression, knn, naïve Bayes and random forest classifier. I got different accuracy where I have seen the lowest accuracy prediction was approx. 63% by naïve bayes model and the highest prediction accuracy was by random forest when we talk in terms of test and train method but when we investigate in terms of RR test and train split as well as in stratified k-fold, the percentage of accuracy remained higher which is almost 84 percent in both cases.
3. Use roc to review how better is our model? 
Sol: after doing prediction and getting accuracies on behalf of modeling such as logistic regression, knn , naïve bayes and random forest classifier , I have noticed that in terms of k-fold and test and train method ,higher prediction accuracy was of random forest classifier corresponding to other models , therefore I made a Roc model through which I come to know that how better model is(0.89).
 ## KEYWORDS: 
 Data visualization, Logistic regression model, k- Neighbors, Naïve Bayes, Random Forest Classifiers.
 ## Tools
 We will use python software to do the visualization part and the operation to perform.
